President Obama:
It has now been more than a week since the
attempted act of terrorism aboard that flight
to Detroit on Christmas Day. On Thursday,
I received the preliminary findings of the
reviews that I ordered into our terrorist
watchlist system and air travel screening.
I've directed my counterterrorism and homeland
security advisor at the White House, John
Brennan, to lead these reviews going forward
and to present the final results and recommendations
to me in the days to come. As I said this
week, I will do everything in my power to
make sure our hard-working men and women in
our intelligence, law enforcement and homeland
security communities have the tools and resources
they need to keep America safe. This includes
making sure these communities, and the people
in them, are coordinating effectively and
are held accountable at every level. And as
President, that is what I will do. Meanwhile,
the investigation into the Christmas Day incident
continues, and we're learning more about
the suspect. We know that he traveled to Yemen,
a country grappling with crushing poverty
and deadly insurgencies. It appears that he
joined an affiliate of al Qaeda, and that
this group, al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, trained
him, equipped him with those explosives and
directed him to attack that plane headed for
America. This is not the first time this group
has targeted us. In recent years, they have
bombed Yemeni government facilities and Western
hotels, restaurants and embassies; including
our embassy in 2008, killing one American.
So, as President, I've made it a priority
to strengthen our partnership with the Yemeni
government -- training and equipping their
security forces, sharing intelligence and
working with them to strike al Qaeda terrorists.
And even before Christmas Day, we had seen
the results. Training camps have been struck;
leaders eliminated; plots disrupted. And all
those involved in the attempted act of terrorism
on Christmas must know -- you too will be held
to account. But these efforts are only part
of a wider cause. It's been nearly a year
since I stood on the steps of the U.S. Capitol
and took the oath of office as your President.
And with that oath came the solemn responsibility
that I carry with me every moment of every
day, the responsibility to protect the safety
and security of the American people. On that
day I also made it very clear, our nation
is at war against a far-reaching network of
violence and hatred, and that we will do whatever
it takes to defeat them and defend our country,
even as we uphold the values that have always
distinguished America among nations. And make
no mistake, that's exactly what we've
been doing. It's why I refocused the fight, bringing
to a responsible end the war in Iraq, which
had nothing to do with the 9/11 attacks, and
dramatically increasing our resources in the
region where al Qaeda is actually based, in
Afghanistan and Pakistan. It's why I've
set a clear and achievable mission to disrupt,
dismantle and defeat al Qaeda and its extremist
allies and prevent their return to either
country. And it's why we've forged new
partnerships, as in Yemen, and put unrelenting
pressure on these extremists wherever they
plot and train, from East Africa to Southeast
Asia, from Europe to the Persian Gulf. And
though often out of sight, our progress has
been unmistakable. Along with our partners,
we've disrupted terrorist financing, cut
off recruiting chains, inflicted major losses
on al Qaeda's leadership, thwarted plots here
in the United States, and saved countless
American lives. Yet as the Christmas Day attempt
illustrates, and as we were reminded this
week by the sacrifices of more brave Americans
in Afghanistan—including those seven dedicated
men and women of the CIA, the hard work of
protecting our nation is never done. So as
our reviews continue, let us ask the questions
that need to be asked. Let us make the changes
that need to be made. Let us debate the best
way to protect the country we all love. That
is the right and responsibility of every American
and every elected official. But as we go forward,
let us remember this, our adversaries are
those who would attack our country, not our
fellow Americans, not each other. Let's
never forget what has always carried us through
times of trial, including those attacks eight
Septembers ago. Instead of giving in to fear
and cynicism, let's renew that timeless
American spirit of resolve and confidence
and optimism. Instead of succumbing to partisanship
and division, let's summon the unity that
this moment demands. Let's work together,
with a seriousness of purpose, to do what
must be done to keep our country safe. As
we begin this New Year, I cannot imagine a
more fitting resolution to guide us-as a
people and as a nation. Happy New Year.